# CS2100 Lab 1
**Name**: Prannaya Gupta
**Student ID**: E0795267
**Lab Group**: _________

## Objective
You will learn how to use **GDB** to debug a C program.

## Preparation (before the Lab)
1. Install GDB
2. Starting GDB (all platforms): Type GDB in the terminal (Cygwin terminal for windows users). **`help`** command lists the help and **`quit`** command exits GDB.

## Procedure
1. The `cs2100lab1.zip` file contains a file called **`lab1.c`**, which you will require.

2. Compile **`lab1.c`** with **`gcc`** using the following command:

```shell
$ gcc –g –o lab1 lab1.c
```

3. What is the purpose of the flags “`g`” and “`o`” in `gcc`?
> **`-o`**: Indicates output file
> **`-g`**: Indicates the usage of errors

4. Execute the program you just compiled using the command:

```sh
$ ./lab1
```

```ad-question
title: _What is the error encountered (if any!)?_

**Answer**: **`Floating point exception`**
```

5. Start the GDB debugger by using the command:

```sh
$ gdb lab1
```

6. To run the program in GDB, you can use the command **`run`**. This will run the whole program without any pause.

```sh
(gdb) run
```

7. To get into the debug mode, use the **`start`** command.

```sh
(gdb) start
```

```ad-info
title: Additional Info

You can use the **`list`** command to view the source code at any point
You can also use **`layout src`** and **`layout asm`** commands to view
```

8. A **breakpoint** is a command to put an intentional pause in the program execution to inspect the variable values and resources in the program. You can set multiple breakpoints in a program. In GDB you can put a breakpoint at any line number using the command **`break`** or **`b`**:

```sh
(gdb) break lineNumber
```

For instance, if we want to pause at line 6, we use the command

```
(gdb) break 6
```

You can continue execution (till end or the next breakpoint) using the **`continue`** command.
```ad-question
title: _Which line(s) will you set the breakpoint(s) in?_

**Answer:** **Line 8**
```

9. A **`step`** command is used to carry out step-by-step execution of the program. You can _step_ through the program using the following command:

```sh
(gdb) step numberOfLines
```

This will excute these many lines, the default value of `numberOfLines` is `1`. `step 3` will run the next 3 lines of code.
````ad-info
title: Additional Info

You can “switch on” display of the associated assembly code related to the instruction being executed using the command:

```sh
$ set disassemble-next-line on
```
````

10. At every step (or breakpoint) you can view a variable value using the **`print`** command:

```sh
(gdb) print a
```

You can view all local variable values using the command:

```sh
(gdb) info locals
```

````ad-question
title: What are the values of variables **`c`** and **`d` at the start of line 8** (_before executing line 8_)**?**

**Answer:**
```
c: 20
d: 0
```
````

11. You can view the register values at any step or breakpoint using this command:

```sh
(gdb) info registers
```

12. You can stop the debugging by using the **`stop`** command. To quit GDB, use the **`quit`** command.
13. Debug and modify **`lab1.c`** to carry out four arithmetic operations (`+`, `-`, `/`, `*`) and print the days of the week. The output of the program should look as follows:
```
Arithmetic operations:
a+b = 110
a-b = 90
b/a = 0
a*b = 1000


Days of the week:
Day[0] = Monday
Day[1] = Tuesday
Day[2] = Wednesday
Day[3] = Thursday
Day[4] = Friday
Day[5] = Saturday
Day[6] = Sunday
```

14. Show your Lab TA the output of your corrected program. Submit this report to your Lab TA at the end of the lab. You do not need to submit the corrected program. You are not to email the report to your Lab TA.